README.md, before:

# eForms Mapping Artefacts

To update the minimal test package `package_cn_v1.9_minimal` from the
contents in `src` (latest developmental RML rules), simply run `make`, which
resolves to the default (first) Make target `package_sync`.

The package `package_cn_v1.9` is kept for reference with old RML file(s), but
will be updated with the new RML rules in development at one point. In the
meantime, feel free to create derived packages with more or less data. Some
helper Make commands are provided for this:

```
make package_cn_all_variants
make export_cn_all_variants
```

These will output temporary packages in an `output` folder, along with their
ZIP archive files. Currently, they are based around the following variants of
_EF10-24 (CN), SDK v1.9_:

- **minimal** One SDK example only, `cn_24_maximal.xml`
- **examples** All SDK examples, _except_ `cn_24_maximal_100_lots.xml`
- **samples** All sample data, no SDK example
- **maximal** All SDK examples and all sample data, _including_ `cn_24_maximal_100_lots.xml`

You are free to modify any package and rerun the relevant export Make target,
e.g. `make export_cn_minimal`.

## Testing

There are semi-automated tests which are mainly for _checking_ and
investigating, run with `make test_output` (uses Apache Jena `arq` to run some
queries). Otherwise, there is GitHub Actions CI integration for validating RDF
files using Jena's `riot` tool.

## Requirements

Users need only to install the following external software tools, libraries
and/or runtimes if developing and testing the RML mapping:

- Java 11+ (tested up to 17)
- RMLMapper-Java==v6.2.2
- A UNIX-compatible environment w/ `make`, `curl`, `zip`, etc.
- Apache Jena 4.10 (for the command-line tools `arq` and `riot`)

Make, cURL, ZIP and other UNIX/Bash tools may be accessible on Windows via
Chocolatey (e.g. `choco install make`).

RMLMapper is currently tied to v6.2.2 because of an
[issue with conditional
instantiation](https://github.com/RMLio/rmlmapper-java/issues/236).

## Development Workflow

For collaboration, create branches with a three-fragment scheme
`feature/{internal-ticket-id}/{understandable-short-label}` where
`{internal-ticket-id}` could be a JIRA ticket ID, and
`{understandable-short-label}` representing some meaningful label
understandable among collaborators, such as a deliverable name (e.g. `part1`),
optionally hyphen-suffixed with relevant component/concept names (e.g. `-Lot`
yielding the ending branch segment `part1-Lot`).

Please note that feature branches are bound to change often and therefore
collaborators (on the same branch) may need to run `git reset --hard
origin/{feature-branch-name}` instead of `git pull`, OR, _always_ use `git pull
--rebase` to ensure local changes come on top (and to check whether or not the
local changes conflict).

Otherwise, feature branches should also always merge in _main_ (or whatever the
parent is) whenever possible so as to reduce surprises (avoid rebases against
parents as that can cause frustration not worth the clean history pursuit).

Commit message:

Update README for URI scheme

README.md, after:

# eForms Mapping Artefacts

To update the minimal test package `package_cn_v1.9_minimal` from the
contents in `src` (latest developmental RML rules), simply run `make`, which
resolves to the default (first) Make target `package_sync`.

The package `package_cn_v1.9` is kept for reference with old RML file(s), but
will be updated with the new RML rules in development at one point. In the
meantime, feel free to create derived packages with more or less data. Some
helper Make commands are provided for this:

```
make package_cn_all_variants
make export_cn_all_variants
```

These will output temporary packages in an `output` folder, along with their
ZIP archive files. Currently, they are based around the following variants of
_EF10-24 (CN), SDK v1.9_:

- **minimal** One SDK example only, `cn_24_maximal.xml`
- **examples** All SDK examples, _except_ `cn_24_maximal_100_lots.xml`
- **samples** All sample data, no SDK example
- **maximal** All SDK examples and all sample data, _including_ `cn_24_maximal_100_lots.xml`

You are free to modify any package and rerun the relevant export Make target,
e.g. `make export_cn_minimal`.

## Testing

There are semi-automated tests which are mainly for _checking_ and
investigating, run with `make test_output` (uses Apache Jena `arq` to run some
queries). Otherwise, there is GitHub Actions CI integration for validating RDF
files using Jena's `riot` tool.

## Requirements

Users need only to install the following external software tools, libraries
and/or runtimes if developing and testing the RML mapping:

- Java 11+ (tested up to 17)
- RMLMapper-Java==v6.2.2
- A UNIX-compatible environment w/ `make`, `curl`, `zip`, etc.
- Apache Jena 4.10 (for the command-line tools `arq` and `riot`)

Make, cURL, ZIP and other UNIX/Bash tools may be accessible on Windows via
Chocolatey (e.g. `choco install make`).

RMLMapper is currently tied to v6.2.2 because of an [issue with conditional
instantiation](https://github.com/RMLio/rmlmapper-java/issues/236) (currently
fixed but yet unreleased).

## RDF URI Scheme

The eForms RML mappings use the URI scheme `{ns}id_{notice-id}_{concept}_{trailer}`, where:

- `{ns}` is a base namespace, in this case `http://data.europa.eu/a4g/resource/`
- `{concept}` is either (i) an ontology fragment label or (ii) source element label, with a suffix or prefix
- `{trailer}` is either (i) an ID value (if the resource has one) or (ii) an _online_ computed, deterministic hash
- Root concepts such as `epo:Notice` end up to only the `{concept}`

Expanding on some of the components for further clarity:

- Whether a `concept` is an ontology fragment or source element label, and whether this label has a suffix (rarely) or prefix, depends on the subjective (human) evaluation of whether only having the class name is sufficient hint of what the URI represents.
- The trailer, when a hash, is computed (seeded) with the XPath named element (e.g. `cbc:ID`) or (often relative) path (e.g. `path(cbc:ID)`) of what is being mapped, and therefore lends a unique identity to the URI. This yields reproducible URIs across RML TripleMaps, in case a resource needed to be instantiated at different XPaths, for whatever purpose.
  - A Lot or any other resource with an inherent ID, would simply have its `cbc:ID` value as the trailer, for e.g. `epd:id_14549263-b47b-4e59-96a1-2d0d13e19343_Lot_LOT-0001`, which is very useful for linking purposes at orthogonal XPaths (e.g. wherever an `id-ref` is concerned, that ID could simply be used to produce a linkable URI without having to navigate XPaths).
  - Any other resource where there is no inherent ID would have a hash that is unique to the XPath it represents, e.g. an `epo:Purpose` instance, if instantiated at different XPaths for associating different attributes, would have the same URI across those instantiations, resulting in one unique instance and no duplication due to multiple mappings.
    - The `adms:Identifier`, although having an ID, may still get a hash instead of ID in its trailer, as it may not have a short ID that is sensible to use/read (however we may not have enforced this rule strongly)

Note: Wherever _URI_ is mentioned, [IRI](https://www.w3.org/2001/Talks/0912-IUC-IRI/paper.html#:~:text=In%20principle%2C%20the%20definition%20of,us%2Dascii%20characters%20in%20URIs) is meant. Also, the generation of hashes is done _online_ against a remote HTTP web API endpoint offering this function, during transformation (which can otherwise be an offline process).

## Development Workflow

For collaboration, create branches with a three-fragment scheme
`feature/{internal-ticket-id}/{understandable-short-label}` where
`{internal-ticket-id}` could be a JIRA ticket ID, and
`{understandable-short-label}` representing some meaningful label
understandable among collaborators, such as a deliverable name (e.g. `part1`),
optionally hyphen-suffixed with relevant component/concept names (e.g. `-Lot`
yielding the ending branch segment `part1-Lot`).

Please note that feature branches are bound to change often and therefore
collaborators (on the same branch) may need to run `git reset --hard
origin/{feature-branch-name}` instead of `git pull`, OR, _always_ use `git pull
--rebase` to ensure local changes come on top (and to check whether or not the
local changes conflict).

Otherwise, feature branches should also always merge in _main_ (or whatever the
parent is) whenever possible so as to reduce surprises (avoid rebases against
parents as that can cause frustration not worth the clean history pursuit).
